Caulfield: Melbourne Racing Club
Date:
Saturday 25 July 2026
Track:
Soft 6
Going Stick:
9.2; Shear 9.8; Penetrate 9.0
Weather:
Overcast/Showers
Rail:
Out 10m entire circuit
Stewards' Panel:
James Hitchcock (Chair), Ray Livingstone, Rex Terp, Kirstie Vanderzeil and Glenn Fish


Race 1 - SPORTSBET FIXED ODDS EXOTICS HANDICAP - 1200 metres:
Takeko Slow to begin.
Glasgow Lass Raced wide without cover.
Recuperato Held up for clear running for a short distance approaching and passing the 300m.
Mystery 'N' Drama Rider Luke Cartwright reported it had been his intention to settle midfield with cover, however due to the genuine early tempo and to avoid racing wide, he elected to ease and settle further back. Co-trainer Katherine Coleman confirmed the nature of the instructions.
Divine Thoughts A post-race veterinary examination identified the presence of blood at both nostrils. Trainer Nelson Smyth was notified that in accordance with AR 79(4), Divine Thoughts shall not without permission of the Stewards: (a) be trained, exercised or galloped on any racecourse, recognised training track, private training establishment, or other place for a period of two months; (b) start in any race for a period of 3 months, and then only after: (i) a gallop of at least 1000 metres; or (ii) an official trial or jump-out; in the presence, and to the satisfaction of a Steward. A veterinary clearance will be required prior to racing or trialling again.
Royal Lass When questioned regarding the apparent improved performance, co-trainer Shannon Hope advised that at the mare's most recent start it had tired in a genuinely run race. Mr Hope added that he felt the main reason today for the improved showing was that the mare had derived a fitness benefit from its prior race.

Race 2 - STOW ROBOTICS HANDICAP - 1100 metres:
The start of the event was delayed eight minutes after No Confetti broke through the front of the barriers and galloped a considerable distance riderless before being recaptured. Torture, Rebel Tuesday and Orchid Sky, which were in the adjoining barriers, also broke through, however were quickly restrained. During the delay, all remaining runners were removed from the barriers, and the barriers were tested to ensure they then functioned correctly.
No Confetti Fractious in the barriers, reared and broke through the front of the barriers riderless and galloped a considerable distance. Late scratching at 12:48 pm on veterinary advice. Trainer Simon Zahra was notified No Confetti will be required to compete in a jump-out to the satisfaction of Stewards before being permitted to race again.
Rebel Tuesday Broke through the barriers and slipped behind when being quickly restrained. Underwent a veterinary examination and was declared a late scratching at 12:50 pm on veterinary advice, lame near hind. A veterinary clearance is required prior to being permitted to race or officially trial again.
Milsons Point Resaddled at the barriers.
Ghana's Akan Underwent a veterinary examination after being kicked by Resolutely behind the barriers and was passed suitable to race. Raced wide without cover.
Resolutely Underwent a veterinary examination after being kicked by Ghana's Akan behind the barriers and was passed suitable to race. When questioned regarding his riding in the straight, rider Craig Williams explained that on straightening, he commenced to ride his mount along in order to ensure that he could make his run wider in the straight. C. Williams added that Resolutely initially quickened, however then commenced to shift out under pressure. When questioned regarding his riding over the latter stages, C. Williams explained that as Resolutely continued to shift out, he desisted from applying the whip as he felt Resolutely was no longer responding. Rather, he continued to ride his mount along and show the whip to the filly to try to have Resolutely maintain its momentum on a straight course to the line.
Torture (NZ) Broke through the barriers and was quickly restrained. Underwent a veterinary examination and was passed suitable to race. Knuckled on jumping away. Near the 150m was checked when crowded for room by Stakes which shifted in abruptly, despite rider Jye McNeil endeavouring to correct his mount.
Orchid Sky Broke through the barriers and was quickly restrained. Underwent a veterinary examination and was passed suitable to race.
Brazen Panda Slow to begin.
Stakes Slow to begin. Laid in under pressure in the straight. Near the 150m ran in abruptly and was corrected by its rider.
Brazen Dechambeau Laid in under pressure in the straight.

Race 3 SPORTSBET CAULFIELD CUP CARNIVAL HOSPITALITY HANDICAP - 1100 metres:
Correct weight was delayed to enable rider Jett Stanley and trainer Gavin Bedggood (Behaviour, 2nd placegetter) to view the Stewards' patrol video before deciding not to lodge an objection.
Luna Cat Slow to begin and hampered after the start.
Butternut Princess Slow to begin and hampered after the start.
Apache Song Slow to begin. Near the 600m got its head up when being eased.
Behaviour Began awkwardly and shifted in. Near the 100m was brushed by Tennessee Bound.
Salsa Fellow Knuckled on jumping away.
Tennessee Bound Knuckled on jumping away and became badly unbalanced. Near the 100m shifted out under pressure and brushed Behaviour.

Race 4 - QUAYCLEAN HANDICAP - 1100 metres:
The Benchmark Raced keenly in the early stages.
Jenni The Ninja Raced wide without cover. Rider Jett Stanley reported the filly felt uncomfortable in its action. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Trainer Gavin Bedggood expressed disappointment in the performance of the filly and indicated that Jenni The Ninja would be assessed on return to the stable. Stewards will follow up with the stable.
Prince Tycoon Near the 50m rider Ryan Houston dropped his whip.
Snow Mercy A post-race endoscopy of Snow Mercy at the request of the stable detected a degree of internal exercise-induced pulmonary haemorrhage that may have affected the filly's racing performance. A veterinary clearance will be required prior to being permitted to race or officially trial again.

Race 5 - TOBIN BROTHERS CELEBRATING LIVES HANDICAP - 1600 metres:
Detonator Jack (NZ) Slow to begin. Rider Jabez Johnstone reported that in his view the gelding, after settling back in the field, was not suited by the way the race was run, in that it appeared to favour on-pace horses. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Jimmy The Bear Rider Dakotah Keane could offer no explanation for the disappointing performance, other than the gelding may have come to the end of its preparation. Trainer Patrick Payne advised the gelding would be spelled. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
St Lawrence (NZ) Rider Jamie Mott could offer no explanation for the disappointing performance. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Trainer Gavin Bedggood expressed disappointment with the performance of the gelding, albeit it appeared that the race had suited on-pace horses. He added St Lawrence (NZ) would now be freshened up prior to its next race start.

Race 6 - SPORTSBET SAME RACE MULTI HANDICAP - 2400m metres:
Menthon Change of tactics: intention to be ridden further back. Began only fairly. Restrained after the start and settled at the rear.
Dirnaseer The saddle shifted forward near the 1400m, placing rider John Allen at a disadvantage. As the saddle continued to shift forward, J. Allen removed his feet from both stirrup irons near the 600m and as a result Dirnaseer was not tested thereafter. J. Allen confirmed that his saddle shifted forward in the middle stages and continued to shift further forward where it got to a point, near the 600m, where it became necessary for him to remove his feet from the stirrup irons. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Decalogue Raced greenly in the straight, laid in and proved difficult to ride. When questioned, rider Jabez Johnstone reported he was instructed to ride the gelding with cover to enable his mount to settle. J. Johnstone explained he was able to obtain a midfield position trailing the race favourite, where Decalogue relaxed. J. Johnstone added he commenced a run from near the 800m where his mount finished the race fairly, however in his opinion Decalogue may have now come to the end of its preparation. Trainer Ciaron Maher advised Decalogue would be spelled.
Ferrario Near the 200m was brushed by Kings Reflection.
Kings Reflection Near the 200m shifted in and brushed with Ferrario. Rider Jye McNeil reported the gelding may have come to the end of its preparation. Trainer Taige Weir advised Kings Reflection would be spelled. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Brillantezza (NZ) Rider Dean Yendall reported in his opinion the filly may have come to the end of its preparation. Trainer Patrick Payne advised the filly would be spelled.
Harbour Town Rider Craig Williams reported that the gelding may have come to the end of its preparation. Co-trainer JD Hayes advised that Harbour Town would be spelled.

Race 7 - THE BIG SCREEN COMPANY BLETCHINGLY STAKES - GROUP 3 - 1200 metres:
Title Fighter Shifted the near fore plate in the pre-parade ring. Underwent a veterinary examination at the barriers and passed suitable to race. Change of tactics: intention to be ridden more forward if begins well. Slow to begin. Settled midfield, however raced wide throughout.
Miraval Rose Slow to begin and was crowded after the start. Rider Jordan Childs reported after meeting with interference at the start, the mare settled further back than intended which was detrimental to its performance. A post-race endoscopy detected a throat condition that may have affected the mare's racing performance. A veterinary clearance will be required prior to racing or officially trialling again.
Recommendation Rider Thomas Stockdale reported that after his mount began well he was able to settle more prominently.

Race 8 STOW STORAGE SOLUTIONS HANDICAP - 2000 metres:
Prince Eric (IRE) Slow to begin.
Leonchroi (NZ) Slow to begin.
Test The Law Slow to begin. Near the 250m when giving ground was crowded for room by Crimson Vine which was taken out by Aftermath (NZ), which in turn was taken wider by Stop The Rock (NZ), which shifted out after making contact with Belle Savoir.
Savour The Dream (NZ) Began awkwardly and got its head up. Raced ungenerously in the early and middle stages.
Makdane Raced wide before settling outside the leader near the 1600m.
Amleto (IRE) Raced wide without cover from the 1600m.
Aftermath (NZ) Carried wider near the 250m.
Crimson Vine Hampered near the 250m.
Stop The Rock (NZ) Bumped with Belle Savoir near the 250m and then shifted out.
Belle Savoir Bumped near the 250m. Rider Jamie Mott reported his mount raced flat. Trainer Nick Ryan advised that Belle Savoir would be freshened up.
Station One Rider Jason Maskiell reported the gelding would be better suited in races of a lesser grade. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.

Race 9 MRC MEMBERSHIP MADE OF MOMENTS HANDICAP - 1400 metres:
Falset Star Slow to begin.
Hotei Senshi Slow to begin.
Mahershala (NZ) Began awkwardly. Raced keenly in the early stages. (3rd placegetter). Rider Jabez Johnstone was severely reprimanded under the provisions of AR 131(b) and reminded of his obligations to fully ride his mounts through to the finish. Stewards were satisfied his actions did not affect the placings.
Shares Near the 1200m when racing keenly was steadied when awkwardly placed between the heels of Cruiserweight (NZ) which shifted in marginally and Jenni Gone Bonkers which shifted out. Then continued to race keenly for some distance thereafter.
Ludlum For a short distance near the 50m was awkwardly placed close to the heels of Jenni Gone Bonkers.
Cruiserweight (NZ) Rider Craig Williams explained his mount began well, then raced keenly and consequently settled further forward than it had at its most recent starts. C. Williams added Cruiserweight (NZ) continued to race keenly in the middle stages and he felt this was the main reason for the gelding tiring over the latter stages. Co-trainer JD Hayes concurred with the views of C. Williams and advised that in the stable's view, Cruiserweight (NZ) is best ridden with cover. Mr Hayes added that Cruiserweight (NZ) had pleased leading into today's race. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Stewards will follow up with the stable.
Jenni Gone Bonkers Rider Jett Stanley explained that his mount travelled well in the lead and he raced away from the rail where he felt the ground was superior.

SWAB SAMPLES

Pre-race blood for post-race analysis:
Race 1 Custom, Recuperato, Mystery 'N' Drama
Race 2 Rebel Tuesday, Resolutely, No Confetti
Race 3 Tennessee Bound, Apache Song
Race 4 Prince Tycoon, Signature Scent, Express Class
Race 5 Tuff Tu Miss, St Lawrence (NZ), First Chorus (NZ)
Race 6 Kings Reflection, Pressurised (NZ), Ferrario
Race 7 Cosmic Crusader, Aztec Ruler, Winnasedge, Miraval Rose
Race 8 Makdane, Aftermath (NZ), Amleto (IRE)
Race 9 Cruiserweight (NZ), Blankfield, Hotei Senshi

Pre-race urine for post-race analysis:
Race 2 Brazen Panda
Race 3 Butternut Princess
Race 4 Farcited
Race 5 Magnaspin
Race 7 Watchme Win
Race 8 Aeolian (GB)

Post-race samples from following horses:
All Winners
Race 7 Winnasedge (2nd placegetter)

Raceday Summary

Late Scratchings:
Race 2, No Confetti, 12:48 pm, veterinary advice
Race 2, Rebel Tuesday, 12:50 pm, veterinary advice
Fines:
Race 4, Ben, Will and JD Hayes, $100, late rider notification, LR 63A(2)(b)
Severe Reprimands:
Race 9, Jabez Johnstone, failed to ride mount out, AR 131(b)
Horse Actions:
Race 1, Divine Thoughts, bled, three-month suspension, veterinary clearance
Race 2, No Confetti, fractious in barrier, jump-out
Race 2, Rebel Tuesday, lame, veterinary clearance
Race 4, Snow Mercy, EIPH, veterinary clearance
Race 7, Miraval Rose, throat condition, veterinary clearance
Change Of Tactics:
Race 6, Menthon, further back
Race 7, Title Fighter, more forward
Follow Ups:
Race 4, Jenni The Ninja
Race 9, Cruiserweight (NZ)
