Flemington: Victoria Racing Club
Date:
Saturday 18 July 2026
Track
Soft 6
Going Stick:
8.9; Inside 8.8, Outside 8.6; Shear 10.6; Soil moisture 36.8%
Weather:
Fine
Rail
Out 3m entire circuit
Stewards' Panel:
Rob Montgomery (Chair), Ray Livingstone, Darren Triandafillou, Kirstie Vanderzeil and Glenn Fish

Riding Changes/Jockey Information

Race	Horse	Rider	Replaced By	Reason
4	Cherish Me	Jabez Johnstone	Emily Pozman	Dual engagement
4	Off Their Perch	Neil Farley	Teo Nugent	Delayed
6	Stern Idol (IRE)	Jabez Johnstone	Teo Nugent	Became unavailable


Other Comments/Explanations:
Race 6 - Stewards considered an application from trainer Ciaron Maher to have apprentice Jabez Johnstone replaced due to him suffering a cut to his left hand that required stitches, as Stern Idol is a recognised horse that can race keenly and may prove difficult for J. Johnstone to ride. After taking evidence from Dr B. Barresi and Dr J. McCorkell, who assessed J. Johnstone on arrival on course, and whilst both Dr Barresi and Dr McCorkell advised that they were comfortable that J. Johnstone was suitable to ride, bearing in mind the circumstances, they were of the view that J. Johnstone should be removed from his engagement on Stern Idol, as such permission was granted for Teo Nugent to be substituted.

Race 1 - TAB BYERLEY HANDICAP - 1800 metres:
Ko Phangan Rounding the home turn approaching the 400m raced in restricted room between Notified and Stunning Kitty (J. Stanley) which shifted away from the rail when laying out. Rider Jett Stanley was advised to exercise more care.
Notified Rounding the home turn approaching the 400m raced in restricted room between Ko Phangan which had been taken wider by Stunning Kitty which shifted out and Achy Breaky Heart which shifted in marginally. As a result, Notified was eased and shifted to the outside of Achy Breaky Heart to continue into clear running.
Stunning Kitty Made the home turn awkwardly and laid out.

Race 2 TAB WE'RE ON - 1000 metres:
The Troubleshooter Despite approval on the day of acceptances to ride 0.5 kg overweight, rider Luke Nolen was ultimately able to ride the gelding at its handicap weight.
Hard Kick Reared on jumping and made contact with Dark Matter. Rider Jackson Radley could offer no explanation for the disappointing performance. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Co-trainer Ben Hayes advised that in his view, Hard Kick, which was resuming, raced too keenly and as a result did not finish its race off. Mr Hayes added that Hard Kick would derive benefit from its first-up performance. Stewards will follow up with the stable.
Leopard Shark Began awkwardly.
Panchenko Began awkwardly and shifted out. Laid in from the 300m and raced greenly. Rider Craig Williams advised his mount was unable to obtain cover and raced greenly. A post-race veterinary examination revealed a slower than expected recovery rate.
Dark Matter Began awkwardly and made contact with Hard Kick. Near the 250m was tightened and was hampered when awkwardly placed on the heels of Panchenko when taken wider by Almontego which had been crowded and taken out by Hard Kick.
Almontego Near the 250m was tightened and hampered when crowded for room between Dark Matter and Hard Kick (J. Radley) which shifted out under pressure.
Apprentice Jackson Radley (Hard Kick) pleaded guilty to a charge of careless riding under the provisions of AR 131(a), in that near the 250 metres he made insufficient effort to prevent his mount from shifting out, which resulted in Almontego being tightened out onto Dark Matter, which resulted in both horses being hampered. Jackson Radley had his permit to ride in races suspended for 8 race meetings, with the period to commence on Thursday 23 July 2026 and expire on Thursday 30 July 2026. Accordingly, Jackson Radley will be able to ride on Friday 31 July 2026. In assessing penalty, account was taken of his guilty plea, record and that the incident was in the low range.

Race 3 - RMBL INVESTMENTS RISING STARS FINAL - 1600 metres:
Impending Shadow Slow to begin. Near the 400m was steadied when disappointed for a run between Sweet Jasmine and Cat Noir which shifted out slightly. A post-race veterinary examination revealed an abrasion to its off hind fetlock.
Cat Noir Slow to begin. Laid in under pressure in the straight. Apprentice Ryan Houston reported he had been asked to ride the mare with cover, however after being slow to begin, it settled further back than intended.
Ataegina (NZ) Began awkwardly, getting its head up and then was crowded after the start. Raced keenly, got its head up and refused to settle in the early and middle stages.
Storm Season Began awkwardly and got its head up. Apprentice Olivia East reported that she was under no specific instructions. Olivia East added after Storm Season began awkwardly, it then mustered speed and as a result settled on pace without being ridden along. Olivia East further added that the mare felt short in its action on pulling up. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Co-trainer Michael Kent (Jnr) explained Storm Season appeared to recover well and the mare will be assessed by the stable veterinarian in the coming days. Stewards will follow up with the stable.
Sweet Jasmine Got its head up shortly after the start after being bumped by Barbie'sdreamworld. Raced keenly and near the 1200m shifted out away from the heels of Cat Noir, then raced wide without cover thereafter.
Barbie'sdreamworld Made contact with Sweet Jasmine at the start.
Changing Colours Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 250m.
Madiyya (NZ) Raced wide without cover in the early stages before striding forward and settling outside the leader near the 1200m. Near the 150m shifted in abruptly and made contact with Street Lark. Apprentice Jackson Radley reported he had been asked to ride his mount with cover, however when caught wide, he allowed the mare to stride forward and ultimately settled outside the leader which was further forward than anticipated.
Street Lark Near the 150m was brushed and hampered by Madiyya (NZ) which shifted in abruptly.
Lake Vostok Apprentice Bailey Kinninmont reported the mare appeared to race flat second up from a spell and he indicated that in his view, Lake Vostok would be suited in races over a longer journey. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Trainer Luke Oliver advised that in his view Lake Vostok raced flat and the intention would be to continue on with the mare's preparation.

Race 4 - ATA TRAINERS' TRUST HANDICAP - 1400 metres:
Duntulm Lass Slow to begin. Held up for clear running from the 400m to the 300m.
Davida Slow to begin. Held up for clear running from the 400m and near the 150m was steadied when disappointed for a run between Misapprehend and Cherish Me (E. Pozman) which shifted out. Apprentice Emily Pozman was reprimanded. Was then awkwardly placed in between the heels of Cherish Me and Misapprehend for the remainder of the race and was not fully tested. When questioned regarding his riding in the straight, rider Michael Dee explained that after being held up in the early part of the straight, near the 300m he commenced to move wider to improve into a run between Cherish Me and Misapprehend. He added that soon after passing the 200m he was in a position to take advantage of that run, however, Cherish Me continued to shift out, resulting in him being disappointed for that position and then being awkwardly placed to the outside of that horse's heels for the remainder of the race.
Laura Eliza Raced keenly in the early stages. Near the 1200m when overracing got its head up and shifted out abruptly when crossed by Misapprehend which shifted in. Rider Craig Williams reported his mount did not begin well and then overraced. C. Williams added that in the straight his mount did not quicken and did not finish the race off as expected. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Off Their Perch Raced keenly in the early and middle stages. Near the 1200m was eased away from the heels of Laura Eliza. When questioned regarding settling further back, rider Teo Nugent explained he had been asked to ride the horse with cover. He added he felt the tempo in the early stages was strong and he was able to obtain a trailing position behind the favoured Laura Eliza soon after the start, however in the middle stages when the tempo eased his mount then commenced to overrace and as a result did not finish the race off as expected.
Palm Angel Raced wide without cover throughout.
Sky Watcher Laid out under pressure in the straight. When questioned regarding Sky Watcher settling more forward, rider Dean Yendall explained, as reported last start, the filly had settled further back than intended after being slow to begin. D. Yendall added that the filly began better today and was able to lead with little effort.
Salizou Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 300m.
Miss Maranda Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 200m. Near the 50m was steadied when awkwardly placed between the heels of Laura Eliza and Palm Angel which shifted in slightly. When questioned, apprentice Luke Cartwright explained that it was the intention to ride the filly, which was resuming, with cover. L. Cartwright added that soon after the start he found a trailing position behind Pravaha at the rear of the field. When questioned as to the reason why he then left the trailing position behind Pravaha and shifted towards the inside near the 1100m, L. Cartwright explained that as he felt the inside ground was superior, his plan was to try and seek runs through the inside and this was the reason why he shifted towards the rail. L. Cartwright added in the early part of the straight, his plan was to follow the eventual winner, Salizou, through, however when it appeared that he would be held up for clear running, he elected to shift out and seek a clear passage wider on the track. He added, however, that he still had difficulty obtaining clear running until near the 200m and, once clear, Miss Maranda commenced to run on well before meeting with some interference near the 50m. He added that he expected that Miss Maranda would now step up in distance where it may be suited by being ridden more forward if circumstances allow.
Licentious Near the 200m, apprentice Holly Durnan dropped her whip.
Cherish Me Shifted out under pressure over the final 300m. When questioned regarding Cherish Me settling more forward, apprentice Emily Pozman explained she had been instructed to ride her mount positively and anticipated settling midfield. E. Pozman added however that Cherish Me began particularly well and for this reason, after being positive, the filly settled more forward than she had anticipated.
Pravaha Slow to begin. Near the 300m was taken off its course and raced close to the heels of Duntulm Lass (J. Stanley) which shifted out when not clear.
Rider Jett Stanley (Duntulm Lass) was found guilty of a charge of careless riding under the provisions of AR 131(a), in that near the 300 metres, he permitted his mount to shift out when not sufficiently clear of Pravaha, which was taken out off its course and raced close to the heels of Duntulm Lass for some distance. Jett Stanley had his licence to ride in races suspended for 9 race meetings, with the period to commence on Monday 27 July 2026 and expire on Tuesday 4 August 2026. Accordingly, Jett Stanley will be able to ride on Wednesday 5 August 2026. In assessing penalty, account was taken of his record and that the incident was in the low range.

Race 5 - VRC MEMBER ERICA McKISSACK TROPHY - 1700 metres:
The Mean Fiddler Despite approval on the day of acceptances to ride 0.5 kg overweight, rider Jye McNeil was ultimately able to ride The Mean Fiddler at its handicap weight. Raced wide without cover from the 900m.
Mr Avery Slow to begin. Near the 1500m got its head up when being steadied away from the heels of Don't Doubt Dare.
Emperor Tzu Slow to begin. Shifted out under pressure inside the final 200m. When questioned regarding the apparent improved performance, stable representative Jack Turnbull advised that Emperor Tzu had benefited from dropping back in distance and also being freshened up prior to today's race.
Flying Done Raced wide in the early stages before settling outside the leader near the 1000m. Near the 200m was hampered by Don't Doubt Dare which shifted in. Rider Dean Yendall reported the gelding may have come to the end of its preparation. Trainer Matthew Williams confirmed Flying Done would be spelled. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Don't Doubt Dare Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 250m.
Oyster Lane Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 200m.
Siriusly Hot Rider Michael Dee explained that Siriusly Hot travelled well, however weakened noticeably in the straight and whilst appearing to return to scale in a normal manner, he could off no explanation for the performance. Stable representative Jack Turnbull reported that Siriusly Hot would be spelled. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Chowdown Rider Harry Coffey reported the gelding made an abnormal respiratory noise. A post-race veterinary examination revealed the gelding to be lame in the off hind leg. A veterinary clearance is required prior to being permitted to race or officially trial again.
Flying Khan Rider Teo Nugent reported from the inside barrier settled more forward than anticipated, where it travelled well in the early and middle stages, however failed to respond to his riding when placed under pressure in the straight. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Prestige Forever Rider Jamie Mott reported the plan was to settle in a forward position, however after beginning fairly his mount did not muster early speed and as a result settled further back than intended. He added when placed under pressure in the straight, Prestige Forever failed to respond to his riding and gave ground.

Race 6 - DEANE LESTER FLEMINGTON CUP 1849 - 2800 metres:
Prior to correct weight, after viewing the patrol video, rider Harry Coffey (Tempesti [ITY], 3rd placegetter) lodged an objection against Bold Soul (NZ) (Jake Noonan, 1st placegetter) being declared the winner on the grounds of alleged interference over the concluding stages. After taking evidence from all parties, it was established that inside the 50m, Bold Soul (NZ) shifted in and made contact with Tempesti (ITY). Bearing in mind the margin between Bold Soul (NZ) and Tempesti (ITY) and the proximity of the interference to the winning post, as Stewards could not be comfortably satisfied that had the interference not occurred, Tempesti (ITY) would have finished in front of Bold Soul (NZ), the objection was dismissed and correct weight was declared.
Stern Idol (IRE) Slow to begin and then was crowded after the start.
Bold Soul (NZ) Began awkwardly, shifted in and was bumped on the hindquarters by Stern Idol (IRE), resulting in both Bold Soul (NZ) and rider Jake Noonan becoming unbalanced. Shifted in over the concluding stages and brushed with Tempesti (ITY). A post-race veterinary examination revealed a slower than expected recovery rate.
Tajanis (IRE) Began awkwardly, shifted out and was bumped on the hindquarters by Stern Idol (IRE) resulting in Tajanis (IRE) becoming unbalanced. Over the concluding stages was brushed on the hindquarters by Black Run (FR) which had been crowded for room.
Virtuous Circle (NZ) When caught wide in the early stages was allowed to stride forward to settle outside the leader near the 2300m. A post-race endoscopic examination at the request of the stable did not reveal any significant findings.
Highland Blaze Laid in under pressure in the straight. Near the 100m was struck over the nose by the whip of Jake Noonan (Bold Soul [NZ]). A post-race veterinary examination revealed the gelding to be lame in the left fetlock. A veterinary clearance is required prior to being permitted to race or officially trial again.
Tempesti (ITY) Between the 400m and the 250m was held up for clear running. Brushed over the concluding stages by Bold Soul (NZ) which shifted in.
Black Run (FR) Over the concluding stages was steadied when crowded for room between Tajanis (IRE) and Tempesti (ITY) which, after being brushed by Bold Soul (NZ) (J. Noonan), then shifted in away from that horse. Rider Jake Noonan was advised to exercise more care.

Race 7 - VRC MEMBER BRENDAN SOBOZYNSKI PLATE - 1200 metres:
Home Rule Underwent a veterinary examination upon arrival, having not raced since September 2025 after POD lesions of both fore fetlocks, and was passed suitable to race.
Mr Verse (IRE) Underwent a veterinary examination upon arrival, having not raced since October 2025 after kissing spine surgery, and was passed suitable to race.
Moby Dick Change of tactics: intention to be ridden more forward. Settled on pace. Rider Jett Stanley reported that as notified the plan had been to ride the horse further forward, however the gelding did not travel comfortably, albeit he felt he raced on the inside section of track which he felt was inferior. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Royal Insignia Slow to begin.
Sixteen Reasons Slow to begin.
Great Maximus Began awkwardly.
Steel Move Began awkwardly. Rider Harry Coffey reported that after his mount began awkwardly, his saddle shifted and for this reason he was placed at a disadvantage for a short distance before the saddle shifted back to its original position.
Barari Began awkwardly. Apprentice Jabez Johnstone reported that the filly raced towards the inside section of track, did not finish its race off as expected and in his view may have come to the end of its preparation. Stable representative Jack Turnbull reported that the filly would more than likely be spelled. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Zethus Rider Teo Nugent reported Zethus hung out during the event and he felt there may be something amiss. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings. Stewards will follow up with the stable.

Race 8 VRC MEMBER RICHARD JOHN ROWLANDS PLATE - 2000 metres:
Chief Little Rock (IRE) Change of tactics: intention to be ridden further back. Settled at the rear of the field.
Think Giant (GB) Resaddled at the barriers. Slow to begin. Raced wide without cover. Laid out from the 700m and made the home turn awkwardly.
Star Of India (IRE) Slow to begin. Held up for clear running from the 400m and near the 300m improved into a narrow run between Bankers Choice (NZ) and Smokin' Romans (NZ). Then near the 200m was buffeted for room between Smokin' Romans (NZ) and Bankers Choice (NZ) which shifted out.
Brayden Star (GB) Held up for clear running from the 400m until the 300m.
Smokin' Romans (NZ) Near the 200m was bumped and became unbalanced by Star Of India (IRE) which had been taken out by Bankers Choice (NZ).
Freedom Rally Rider Jett Stanley reported that in his view the gelding did not run out the distance of today's race. A post-race veterinary examination at the request of the stable did not reveal any significant findings.
Nellie Leylax (IRE) Apprentice Ryan Houston reported that his mount raced flat and he could offer no other explanation for the performance. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.

Race 9 VRC MEMBER ANDREW BOSTOCK TROPHY - 1000 metres:
Correct weight was delayed to enable rider Harry Coffey (Prima Bella [NZ], equal 1st placegetter) to view the Stewards' patrol video before deciding not to lodge an objection.
Charmed Run (NZ) Slow to begin.
Per Sempre (NZ) Slow to begin. Held up for clear running from the 400m until passing the 200m.
Landmark Slow to begin and was hampered after the start by Street Artist (NZ) which shifted in. A post-race veterinary examination revealed the horse to be lame in the left foreleg. A veterinary clearance is required prior to being permitted to race or officially trial again.
Nimbustwothousand Began awkwardly and got its head up.
Street Artist (NZ) Began awkwardly, shifted in and made contact with Landmark. Rider Jamie Mott reported that with the blinkers on today, Street Artist (NZ) raced too keenly and as a result did not finish the race off as expected. A post-race veterinary examination did not reveal any significant findings.
El Pibe De Oro Held up for clear running from the 400m until near the 250m. Apprentice Luke Cartwright explained he had been asked to ride the horse with cover albeit he settled a little further back than he would have liked. He added that after initially trailing Next Step Iowa he then moved wider from the 300m. L. Cartwright added in accordance with the instructions and as reported at the horse's most recent start at Ballarat Synthetic, 24 June 2026, he had been asked to hold the horse up for as long as possible as it only has a short sprint. L. Cartwright added once clear passing the 250m, El Pibe De Oro quickened, despite being inclined to lay in, however made good ground when under pressure.
Next Step Iowa Held up for clear running from the 400m until passing the 200m.

SWAB SAMPLES

Pre-race blood for post-race analysis:
Race 1 Ko Phangan, Delahra, Stunning Kitty
Race 2 Hard Kick, Veneto Street (NZ), Panchenko
Race 3 Changing Colours, Lake Vostok, Marine Empress (IRE)
Race 4 Cherish Me, Licentious, Laura Eliza
Race 5 Flying Khan, The Mean Fiddler
Race 6 Black Run (FR), Highland Blaze, Samuel Langhorne (NZ)
Race 7 Betwitchery, Mr Verse (IRE), Barari
Race 8 Saint George (GB), Chief Little Rock (IRE), Think Giant (GB)
Race 9 Charmed Run (NZ), Next Step Iowa, Bring Me Power

Pre-race urine for post-race analysis:
Race 2 The Troubleshooter
Race 3 Madiyya (NZ)
Race 4 Palm Angel, Davida
Race 5 Flying Done

Post-race samples from following horses:
All Winners

Raceday Summary

Fines:
Race 5, Michael Kent, $200, late raceday rider notification, LR 63A(2)(b)
Reprimands:
Race 4, Emily Pozman, careless riding, AR 131(a)
Severe Reprimands:
Mick Kent, unlabelled medication, AR 252(1), supplementary report
Suspensions:
Race 2, Jackson Radley, 8 meetings, careless riding, AR 131(a)
Race 4, Jett Stanley, 9 meetings, careless riding, AR 131(a)
Horse Actions:
Race 5, Chowdown, lame, veterinary clearance
Race 6, Highland Blaze, lame, veterinary clearance
Race 9, Landmark, lame, veterinary clearance
Change of Tactics:
Race 7, Moby Dick, more forward
Race 8, Chief Little Rock (IRE), further back
Follow Ups:
Race 2, Hard Kick
Race 3, Storm Season
Race 7, Zethus

Supplementary report - Cranbourne Training Centre
Following an inspection from the Compliance Assurance Team on Friday 17 July 2026, trainer Michael Kent was found to have a veterinary product which was not labelled in accordance with State and Commonwealth legislation. M. Kent was severely reprimanded under the provisions of AR 252(1). In assessing penalty, Stewards took into account that M. Kent had never been spoken to under this rule and that the box containing the product was initially labelled, however subsequently disposed of.
